README.md, before:

# open-source-messaging-app

User
### Proposed Stack and Milestones

#### Stack:
**Frontend:**
- Web, Android, IOS: React Native

**Backend:**
- Language: Node.js (Express.js)
- Database: MongoDB (for semi-structured data)
- Real-time Communication: WebSocket (WSS protocol)

**Additional Technologies:**
- NLP Support: Natural Language Toolkit (NLTK)
- Voice-Control Support: Web Speech API
- Video Call: WebRTC
- Face Authentication: FaceID (iOS), BiometricPrompt (Android)
- QR Code Scanning: React Native Camera
- Media Editing: FFmpeg (for audio and video processing)

**UI/UX Design:**
- Figma for designing the user interface

**Miscellaneous:**
- Version Control: Git (GitHub)
- License: MPL 2.0 (Mozilla Public License 2.0)
- System Design: Draw.io

#### Milestones:

1. **Milestone 1 - Basic Working Stage:**
   - Implement basic login, registration, and home page.
   - User authentication with OTP and face authentication.
   - Basic profile setup with a profile picture.
   - Real-time messaging with end-to-end encryption.
   - Basic media sharing (images and videos, documents).
   - Dark and light theme toggle.
   - Web and Android versions working.

2. **Milestone 2 - Intermediate Features:**
   - Search users by ID and name.
   - Voice and video call features.
   - Group chat functionality.
   - Notifications (mute, on messages, on backup).
   - Location sharing.
   - Advanced media sharing (documents, videos, audio).
   - Message searching and scroll-based search.
   - User blocking and reporting.

3. **Milestone 3 - Advanced Features and Optimization:**
   - Implement blockchain technology for message forwarding tracking.
   - Implement Solana for additional security and speed.
   - 3D buttons, animations, and background music.
   - Advanced media editing (audio trimming, image cropping).
   - Implement constant permission prompt for camera access.
   - User analytics and time-spent tracking.
   - Continuous improvement and bug fixes.

4. **Milestone 4 - Deployment and Open Source:**
   - Deploy the application on app stores (Play Store, App Store).
   - Open-source the project on GitHub.
   - Encourage community contributions and feedback.
   - Regular updates based on user feedback.

5. **Milestone 5 - Additional Features and Platforms:**
   - Implement additional features based on user demand.
   - Explore other platforms (iOS, web) and extend the application's reach.
   - Continuous optimization and enhancement.

6. **Proposed Features**
   - Adding whiteboard kind of environment using WebRTC.

#### Additional Considerations:
- Regular meetings to discuss progress, roadblocks, and plan future steps.
- Implementation of secure backup and export features.
- Comprehensive risk analysis and timeline analysis throughout the project.
- UI/UX designs created and updated on Figma or equivalent.

**Note:** The proposed stack and milestones are based on the initial requirements and discussions. The stack and milestones may evolve as the project progresses and additional insights are gained. Regular communication and collaboration are key to the success of the project.

Commit message:

Update README.md for Developer focused and Centralised.

README.md, after:

# open-source-messaging-app
# Developer Focused
# Decentralised as much as it can be.
Aim: To use as much as OPEN-SOURCE tech ONLY as possible.

User
### Proposed Stack and Milestones

#### Stack:
**Frontend:**
- Web, Android, IOS: React Native

**Backend:**
- Language: Node.js (Express.js)
- Database: MongoDB (for semi-structured data)
- Real-time Communication: WebSocket (WSS protocol)

**Additional Technologies:**
- NLP Support: Natural Language Toolkit (NLTK)
- Voice-Control Support: Web Speech API
- Video Call: WebRTC
- Face Authentication: FaceID (iOS), BiometricPrompt (Android)
- QR Code Scanning: React Native Camera
- Media Editing: FFmpeg (for audio and video processing)

**UI/UX Design:**
- Figma for designing the user interface

**Miscellaneous:**
- Version Control: Git (GitHub)
- License: MPL 2.0 (Mozilla Public License 2.0)
- System Design: Draw.io

#### Milestones:

1. **Milestone 1 - Basic Working Stage:**
   - Implement basic login, registration, and home page.
   - User authentication with OTP and face authentication.
   - Basic profile setup with a profile picture.
   - Real-time messaging with end-to-end encryption.
   - Basic media sharing (images and videos, documents).
   - Dark and light theme toggle.
   - Web and Android versions working.

2. **Milestone 2 - Intermediate Features:**
   - Search users by ID and name.
   - Voice and video call features.
   - Group chat functionality.
   - Notifications (mute, on messages, on backup).
   - Location sharing.
   - Advanced media sharing (documents, videos, audio).
   - Message searching and scroll-based search.
   - User blocking and reporting.

3. **Milestone 3 - Advanced Features and Optimization:**
   - Implement blockchain technology for message forwarding tracking.
   - Implement Solana for additional security and speed.
   - 3D buttons, animations, and background music.
   - Advanced media editing (audio trimming, image cropping).
   - Implement constant permission prompt for camera access.
   - User analytics and time-spent tracking.
   - Continuous improvement and bug fixes.

4. **Milestone 4 - Deployment and Open Source:**
   - Deploy the application on app stores (Play Store, App Store).
   - Open-source the project on GitHub.
   - Encourage community contributions and feedback.
   - Regular updates based on user feedback.

5. **Milestone 5 - Additional Features and Platforms:**
   - Implement additional features based on user demand.
   - Explore other platforms (iOS, web) and extend the application's reach.
   - Continuous optimization and enhancement.

6. **Proposed Features**
   - Adding whiteboard kind of environment using WebRTC.

#### Additional Considerations:
- Regular meetings to discuss progress, roadblocks, and plan future steps.
- Implementation of secure backup and export features.
- Comprehensive risk analysis and timeline analysis throughout the project.
- UI/UX designs created and updated on Figma or equivalent.

**Note:** The proposed stack and milestones are based on the initial requirements and discussions. The stack and milestones may evolve as the project progresses and additional insights are gained. Regular communication and collaboration are key to the success of the project.
